It's the most,
Lights fill the streets spreading so much cheer.
I should be playing in the winter snow,
But i'mma be under the mistletoe yo yo yo yo yoyoyoyoyoyoyoy yo yo yo
Object Detection
The task of classifying and localizing multiple objects in an image is called object
detection. Until a few years ago, a common approach was to take a CNN that was
trained to classify and locate a single object, then slide it across the image, as shown
in Figure 14-24. In this example, the image was chopped into a 6 × 8 grid, and we
show a CNN (the thick black rectangle) sliding across all 3 × 3 regions. When the
CNN was looking at the top left of the image, it detected part of the left-most rose,
and then it detected that same rose again when it was first shifted one step to the
right. At the next step, it started detecting part of the top-most rose, and then it detec‐
ted it again once it was shifted one more step to the right. You would then continue to
slide the CNN through the whole image, looking at all 3 × 3 regions. Moreover, since
objects can have varying sizes, you would also slide the CNN across regions of differ‐
ent sizes. For example, once you are done with the 3 × 3 regions, you might want to
slide the CNN across all 4 × 4 regions as well.

Object Detection

|

471

Figure 14-24. Detecting Multiple Objects by Sliding a CNN Across the Image
This technique is fairly straightforward, but as you can see it will detect the same
object multiple times, at slightly different positions. Some post-processing will then
be needed to get rid of all the unnecessary bounding boxes. A common approach for
this is called non-max suppression:
• First, you need to add an extra objectness output to your CNN, to estimate the
probability that a flower is indeed present in the image (alternatively, you could
add a “no-flower” class, but this usually does not work as well). It must use the
sigmoid activation function and you can train it using the "binary_crossen
tropy" loss. Then just get rid of all the bounding boxes for which the objectness
score is below some threshold: this will drop all the bounding boxes that don’t
actually contain a flower.
• Second, find the bounding box with the highest objectness score, and get rid of
all the other bounding boxes that overlap a lot with it (e.g., with an IoU greater
than 60%). For example, in Figure 14-24, the bounding box with the max object‐
ness score is the thick bounding box over the top-most rose (the objectness score
is represented by the thickness of the bounding boxes). The other bounding box
over that same rose overlaps a lot with the max bounding box, so we will get rid
of it.